Now let's look at a simple
function in Python.
The kernel that we have,
percent, pound percent sent, and
pound percent sent, and
they mark out a cell.
These lines show you
the boundaries of the cell.
Here we have a function
defined within a cell, and
we can execute that by typing Ctrl, Enter.
On a Macintosh it would be command return.
Now this function can be run by
typing in the console
the name of the function.
Hello, world!
A couple of things to note about this.
One is it's got a single statement.
Print hello world.
And it does that.
And this statement is indented four
spaces, one, two, three, four.
We always indent four spaces we don't
use tabs that can sometimes cause
confusion on the part of python.
I've also got a string here
enclosed in triple quotes.
This string can be used to
document the program, and
if you notice up here in [INAUDIBLE]
inspector,
you can get the definitions
of various functions and
we can get the definition of our
function by clicking on hello.
Yeah, I'm here type in control I.
Then our function shows up here in this
triple queried string is a documentation
so that you can put instructions on how to
run your program for example in that or
your function.
Now let's write another function.
Here's the area of a circle
of a given radius.
Again we've got pound percent
cent to mark out the cell.
We can execute this [INAUDIBLE]
anywhere in the cell and
type in control enter or
command return on a Macintosh.
That puts, that loads it into
the console window over here.
And now we can run it by typing, Area
of a circle, the name of the function.
And I'll give it a value of five for
the radius.
It prints out the area of
a circle of radius 5 is 78.5.
Now let's look at does that first of all,
we have the formula for
the area of a circle.
Area is equal to pi,
3.14 times the radius, squared.
Just a simple formula for
the area of a circle.
Now, we print the phrase,
the area of a circle of radius,
all about the radius is all
about the area that we computed.
Now you try writing a function,
here is an exercise to do.
Write a function def area triangle
BH where B is the base and H
is the height of the triangle, to compute
the area of a triangle the formula is area
equals one half base times the height,
output should look like the following.
The area of a triangle of base 3 and
height 5 is 7 and a half.
You can test your function by
executing the following code.
Here's a triangle of base 3 and height 5,
here's one of base 2 and height 20.
Here is my run of this.
The area of a triangle of base 3 and
height 5 is 7.5.
The area of a triangle of base 2 and
height 20 is 20.
Now you try it, when you get through,
press continue and
I'll show you my solution.
Okay, here is my solution.
Definition area of triangle,
bh is area equal one-half base times
the height, just that same formula.
Print the area of a triangle of base,
b, and height h, is area.